about/index.markdown, before:

---
author: Michael Paquier
date: 2011-02-27 12:13:51+00:00
layout: page
type: page
slug: about
title: 'Michael Paquier - About'
tags:
- michael
- paquier
- developer
- database
- open
- source
- postgresql
- employer
- job
- demand
- contribution
- request
- connection
- english
- japanese
- french
---
This [blog](/) is maintained by Michael Paquier, currently living in Japan,
acting as a contributor of the [PostgreSQL](http://postgresql.org/) and
involved in its community for a couple of years now. Main areas of focus
are replication with for example technologies of the type multi-master
(as a committer of [Postgres-XC](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/postgres-xc/index.php?title=Main_Page),
concurrent DDLs, parallel query processing, and many other things like
as well HA and recovery/backup.

There are many ways to get in touch, two of them at least being on this
page!

The code of this blog is maintained on [github](https://github.com/michaelpq/michaelpq.github.io)
so if you have any comments or if you want to provide any corrections
that could benefit other viewers, don't hesitate to send patches or
report issues [there](https://github.com/michaelpq/michaelpq.github.io).

Bitcoin wallet address: 1HFRvuQdwVuJZkjE3go9CWhCpgstMe8JXT

Commit message:

Add policy of site in about/ page
No ads, no logging, no stats. That's rather simple.

about/index.markdown, after:

---
author: Michael Paquier
date: 2011-02-27 12:13:51+00:00
layout: page
type: page
slug: about
title: 'Michael Paquier - About'
tags:
- michael
- paquier
- developer
- database
- open
- source
- postgresql
- employer
- job
- demand
- contribution
- request
- connection
- english
- japanese
- french
---
This [blog](/) is maintained by Michael Paquier, currently living in Japan,
acting as a contributor of the [PostgreSQL](http://postgresql.org/) and
involved in its community for a couple of years now. Main areas of focus
are replication with for example technologies of the type multi-master
(as a committer of [Postgres-XC](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/postgres-xc/index.php?title=Main_Page),
concurrent DDLs, parallel query processing, and many other things like
as well HA and recovery/backup.

There are many ways to get in touch, two of them at least being on this
page!

The code of this blog is maintained on [github](https://github.com/michaelpq/michaelpq.github.io)
so if you have any comments or if you want to provide any corrections
that could benefit other viewers, don't hesitate to send patches or
report issues [there](https://github.com/michaelpq/michaelpq.github.io).

This site uses no ads. There is as well no tracking of any information,
no hidden logging process, and no statistics gatherer.

Bitcoin wallet address: 1HFRvuQdwVuJZkjE3go9CWhCpgstMe8JXT
