manuals/archlinux/coding/index.markdown, before:

---
author: Michael Paquier
date: 2014-09-20 05:13:59+00:00
layout: page
type: page
slug: archlinux
title: 'Archlinux - Coding'
tags:
- manual
- linux
- tips
- coding
- development
- archive
- installation
- scratch
- experience

---

### Detect openssl version

openssl version can be found by using SSLeay_version in libcrypto.so, and
this function can be found for example directly by using dlsym in the
library libcrypto.so or even dylib. Here is a simple example of code able to
do so.

    #include <stdio.h>
    #include <dlfcn.h>

    typedef const char *(*SSLEAY_VERSION)(int t);

    int main(int argc, char* argv[])
    {
        void *lib;
        SSLEAY_VERSION SSLeay_version;

        /* Sanity check */
        if (argc != 2)
        {
            printf("USAGE: %s /path/to/libcrypto.so\n", argv[0]);
            return 1;
        }

        /* Try to open library given by user */
        lib = dlopen(argv[1], RTLD_NOW);
        if (lib == NULL)
        {
            printf("%s\n", dlerror());
            return 1;
        }

        /* Grab the object wanted, here openssl version function */
        SSLeay_version = (SSLEAY_VERSION) dlsym(lib, "SSLeay_version");
        if (SSLeay_version == NULL)
        {
            printf("%s\n", dlerror());
            dlclose(lib);
            return 1;
        }
        printf("SSL version %s\n", SSLeay_version(0));

        /* Clean up */
        dlclose(lib);
        return 0;
    }

Compile this code for example like that and then it is simple to use:

    $ gcc -g -o openssl_version openssl_version.c -ldl
	$ openssl_version /path/to/libcrypto.[so|dylib]
    SSL version OpenSSL 1.0.1h-fips 5 Jun 2014

Actually this trick with dlsym can be used on any functions for any library,
just be sure that library dependencies are covered when compiling the code.

Commit message:

list length of standard variables in 32b and 64b environment
I tend to forget some of them, let's keep a list of them.

manuals/archlinux/coding/index.markdown, after:

---
author: Michael Paquier
date: 2014-09-20 05:13:59+00:00
layout: page
type: page
slug: archlinux
title: 'Archlinux - Coding'
tags:
- manual
- linux
- tips
- coding
- development
- archive
- installation
- scratch
- experience

---

### Data type lengths

On 32-bit and 64-bit machines, the length of the following standard
variables vary, here is a list of them with their associated length.

    Environment type  32 bit    64 bit
    short int         16 bit    16 bit
    int               32 bit    32 bit
    long int          32 bit    64 bit
    long long int     64 bit    64 bit
    size_t            32 bit    64 bit
    void*             32 bit    64 bit

### Detect openssl version

openssl version can be found by using SSLeay_version in libcrypto.so, and
this function can be found for example directly by using dlsym in the
library libcrypto.so or even dylib. Here is a simple example of code able to
do so.

    #include <stdio.h>
    #include <dlfcn.h>

    typedef const char *(*SSLEAY_VERSION)(int t);

    int main(int argc, char* argv[])
    {
        void *lib;
        SSLEAY_VERSION SSLeay_version;

        /* Sanity check */
        if (argc != 2)
        {
            printf("USAGE: %s /path/to/libcrypto.so\n", argv[0]);
            return 1;
        }

        /* Try to open library given by user */
        lib = dlopen(argv[1], RTLD_NOW);
        if (lib == NULL)
        {
            printf("%s\n", dlerror());
            return 1;
        }

        /* Grab the object wanted, here openssl version function */
        SSLeay_version = (SSLEAY_VERSION) dlsym(lib, "SSLeay_version");
        if (SSLeay_version == NULL)
        {
            printf("%s\n", dlerror());
            dlclose(lib);
            return 1;
        }
        printf("SSL version %s\n", SSLeay_version(0));

        /* Clean up */
        dlclose(lib);
        return 0;
    }

Compile this code for example like that and then it is simple to use:

    $ gcc -g -o openssl_version openssl_version.c -ldl
    $ openssl_version /path/to/libcrypto.[so|dylib]
    SSL version OpenSSL 1.0.1h-fips 5 Jun 2014

Actually this trick with dlsym can be used on any functions for any library,
just be sure that library dependencies are covered when compiling the code.
